Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
I respectfully ask my homeroom teacher, I am
eight years old, in the third grade, and I
have a question for you:
Why can't I
concentrate on my studies? I sincerely
thank you for your guidance. My question is:
Usually, at home, my
parents say I'm always playing around. I think that's
true, right? I play around and
think about things, but actually, my mind is
thinking, not not
thinking. Do you see that when I'm studying,
I'm thinking about other things? That's
why I can't concentrate.
Now, I will try to focus on my
studies. Do you understand this? Because
our thoughts can
only think about one thing at a time.
Remember what my homeroom teacher said:
your thoughts can only think about one
thing at a time. So, if you're studying and
you think about something else, like
sweeping the house, then you think about
picking vegetables, then you think about sweeping the
house again. You're still using
your thoughts, but it won't be effective.  It
won't get done, it won't get results. Do you
understand? If it won't get done, it won't get
results, then how should you practice now? When
you see someone doing a good deed, you must tell them to
do it. You shouldn't invite your friends to play
while they're studying. Do you understand? Remember
that? And you also shouldn't go out to play or
listen to anyone inviting you to go while you're studying. You
must practice doing one thing from beginning to
end. For example, if your mother is here, she
will ask you to do this task so you get used to
it. Remember, you should tell your mother not to help you halfway through. For example, if your mother tells you to wash the dishes, you must wash them from beginning to end. Do you understand? You mustn't let your mother help you halfway. You must practice completing
each task one by one. For example, if today you're told to
sweep this room, you must sweep until
you've collected the trash.
Remember that? You mustn't abandon a task
halfway through. And you must never let your friend leave
you
halfway through either. That's right, when your friend does a
good deed, you must let them do it. And
also, the other day, I also...  I
instructed you to practice for 5 minutes, then for 3 minutes you sit
still and look at one point. Remember, just
look at one spot. If your mind wanders to
anything else, just
dismiss it and then look at that
point again. Remember that? And as for the
spiritual aspect, I will practice and help
you. Then you will be able to transform.
And your question is very good.
Thank you.
[Music]
[Applause]
My dear.